DUNE 


A rrakis, third planet of Canopus - commonly known as Dune - a planet so inhospitable and barren that 
it barely seems credible it can sustain life. A planet at the mercy of its cruel climate with ground 
temperatures that soar as high as 350 degrees making it desperately hard for vegetation to grow or 
animal life to survive. 

Much of Dune save its small polar caps is covered in endless sand plains and hills punctuated only by jagged 
outcrops of the rock scarring out of the surface. There are giant tidal dust basins too, and the air is often thick 
with dust particles which rapidly clog machinery. Frequent, violent storms with raging winds blow up without 
warning proving fatal to anything caught in the open. 

But there is life on Dune - small burrowing creatures survive in this furnace world: kangaroo mouse, kit fox, 
desert hare, sand terrapins and countless insects which thrive in the heat. And there are worms too - the shai 
- hulud or Old Man Of The Desert, giant sandworms which grow to hundreds of metres in length. 

Each worm guards its own territory jealously, rippling at great speed across the sand and burrowing 
voraciously through the under-soil to attack anything setting up vibrations. 

Dune is home to intelligent life as well, in the form of a tribal race known as the Bremen who eke out a living 
in a constant battle against the elements. They are fierce, independent and instantly recognisable by their 
liquid blue eyes caused by contact with a spice which occurs naturally there. Water is the most precious thing 
on Dune and the Bremen do everything possible to preserve it, wearing special suits to collect the body's 
moisture. 

The stillsuit recycles perspiration by a process of filtration and heat exchange. Water is so central to Bremen 
existence that many customs and rituals have grown up around it: a person’s moisture is considered to belong 
to the tribe and is ritually extracted when they die while spitting is a sign of respect. 

The Bremen simply sought to survive against the odds before the arrival of a man who gave them a dream of 
changing their lives by transforming their environment. Pardot Kynes was an Imperial ecologist despatched to 
the planet by the Emperorfor research purposes. Ble at once saw the planet could be changed, that its people 
could lead a better life. 

Ble offered them a vision of Dune that was covered in vegetation, where water was abundant. Convinced by 
Kynes that the dream was achievable, they set about reclaiming its deserts by creating catch-basins to collect 
underground water and wind-traps to gather moisture from the air. 


Why would anyone choose voluntarily to come to a place like Dune? One good reason - its unique natural 
resource, the Spice, known as melange, a substance currently fetching a cool 620,000 Solaris a decagram. The 
spice which has an odour not unlike cinnamon, is linked to the existence of the sand worms in a complex eco- 
chain and must be extracted from the planet like ore. 

While it has life prolonging properties and pleasant side effects the real reason it is so precious lies in its ability 
to provide the key to deep space navigation (the folding of Space). 

As such it is in great demand with the peoples of the universe - run as a giant feudal empire controlled by an 
all powerful autocrat and a giant corporation served by great Houses. 

The Emperor controls the rights to mine Spice and it is a lucrative contract for anyone to possess. When he 
offered it to the House Of Atreides, which had lived for generations on Caladan, the third planet of Delta 
Pavonis, it was an opportunity too good to pass up - particularly since those very rights had once been held 
solely by the House Of Harkonnen, their sworn enemies in what they call a kanly or vendetta stemming back 
many years. 

The Harkonnens alone had been profiting from Spice and had enslaved the Fremen to mine it for them. 

It was a chance that could not be turned down despite the possibility that there would be treachery and 
conflict. 

So Duke Leto transferred his entire Imperial House to Dune including his son, Paul. At 15 years old, Paul was 
already demonstrating powerful skills of leadership and fighting, but he had special powers too, powers which 
not even he fully understood which came from his mother, Jessica a member of the powerful female Bene 
Gesserit sect. They were powers that he would have to master far sooner than anyone realised ... 



DUNE 



FRANK HERBERT - DUNE MESSIAH 

"Adapt or die that's the first rule of life." 

Born in Tacoma, Washington in 1920 and educated at the University Of Washington in Seattie Frank Flerbert 
enjoyed a varied career before becoming a fuii - time author which inciuded professionai photography, oyster 
diving, jungie survivai instruction, journalism (he held a senior position on a San Francisco newspaper) and 
news commentary. 

Flerbert took up science - fiction in mid - life and began publishing stories in various publications which 
catered forthe genre, beginning in 1952 with a piece entitled looking For Something’. Overthe next ten years 
he was an occasional contributor to sci-fi magazines, publishing his first novel 'The Dragon And The Sea’ a 
perceptive tale of nuclear submarines, which like the best sci-fi predicted several strands of development. 

It was a short novel, 'Dune World’, in 1964 which brought him greater attention. To this he added 'The Prophet 
Of Dune’ before he amalgamated the two into what we now know as 'Dune' in 1965 in the process winning 
two of science fiction’s most prestigious accolades the Flugo and the first ever Nebula. 

Following its success Flerbert wrote five sequels to the extraordinary social and religious eco-structure he 
created with Dune: 'Dune Messiah’ (which continued the story of Paul Atreides with catastrophic 
consequences, 'Children Of Dune’ which follows the fates of his sister Alia and two children Ghanima and Leto. 
These were joined in the '80s by 'God Emperor Of Dune’, 'Heretics Of Dune’ and 'Chapter House Dune’ which 
leapt millennia into the future from the original arrival of Paul. 

Frank Herbert died in February 1986 aged 65, but that has done nothing to slow sales in his work. To date 
Dune has seen a print run of 3,000,000 copies world-wide and, 27 years since its publication it’s still regarded 
as one of the most effective attempts in science fiction to create a convincing alien environment - author 
Arthur C Clarke compared it to Tolkien’s 'Lord Of The Rings’ in its scope - in which the planet and its eco-system 
is genuinely credible and supportive of the broad socio-economic infrastructure. The ideas have resurfaced in 
countless books, films and comics ever since - not to mention computer games. Dune is the first interactive 
entertainment game to embrace Frank Herbert’s achievements in this field . 




DUNE 



DUNE -THE FILM 
1984 

Directed: David Lynch 

starring: Kyle MacLachlan, Francesca Annis, Jurgen Prochnow, Brad Dourif, Jose Ferrer, Kenneth MacMillan, 
Linda Flunt, Sean Young, Sting, Max Von Sydow, Freddie Jones 

Following the critical and box office success of Bladerunner in 1981, the film based on Philip K Dick’s sci-fi 
classic 'Do Androids Dream Of Electric Sheep’, took up the option to transfer Frank Flerbert’s magnum opus to 
the cinema. Ridley Scott, the director of the Bladerunner was linked to the script at one time, as was Roger 
Corman and Alexander Jodorowsky. The job finally fell to David Lynch then known as the creator of the cult 
classic Eraserhead and the man who wrote and directed Blue Velvet, Wild At Fleart and, most recently. Twin 
Peaks. Lynch embarked on an ambitious $50 million attempt to screen the book with a star - studded cast. 


Flerbert and Lynch met and rapidly became aware that much of the film’s impact had been robbed by George 
Lucas’s 1977 classic Star Wars, which seemed to owe a heavy debt to 'Dune’. In fact the pair counted sixteen 
points of similarity between the two films, though no action was ever taken. Ironically Lynch had been offered 
the third of the Star Wars trilogy. Return Of The Jedi a year previously in 1984. 

Kyle MacLachlan, now famous as Peaks’ Agent Cooper plays the young Paul Atreides in a film sprawling across 
140 minutes, however producer Dino De Laurentiis wanted it to be longer and so did Flerbert who favoured 
a TV mini series. The writer was nevertheless brought in to advise during shooting in Mexico. A longer version 
(190 minutes) was eventually re-cut for TV against Lynch’s wish. 


Dune opens with a voice - over from the Emperor’s daughter Princess Irulan describing the cosmos circa 10,191 
and the tactical importance of the planet before the film heads into a lengthy exposition about the characters 
and feudal politics central to the plot. The second half contains much more swashbuckling action in an attempt 
to balance out the rather slow first half. The breathtaking sets, constructed by Oscar winner Carlo Rambaili, 
styling and costumes - based on feudal Italy - owe a great deal to the classic old Flash Gordon series but the 
film struggles to significantly transfer the grand scope of the novel and is forced to omit a great deal. For the 
full story read Ed Naha 'The Making Of Dune’. 



DUNE 




CRYO 

Company profile by Philip Ulrich 

CRYO is a communication tooi whose function is to promote products deveioped in France for the worid 
market. 


CRYO is a young woman’s face. Asleep inside a self - support cryogenic container, she is passing through our 
time on her way to another age. What is her past? What does her destiny hold in store? Can she safely be 
woken from her timeless sleep? What is the mysterious fascination she exercises on all those who approach 
her? Infinite travel, magic, beauty, technology, adventure and mystery; the communications received from 
CRYO will be multi-faceted. CRYO evokes long - lasting high quality. Its design is confidently strong and as 
peaceful as the surrounding deep night. Its concept is resolutely New Age, confident in the future, open to 
fresh ideas, new music and endless visions. CRYO intends to open the way to the next generation of software 
designers: graphic artists, musicians, writers, programmers, directors, sound engineers and special effects 
designers. They will create expanding horizons for our imagination in tomorrow’s world. 


DUNE PERSONNEL 

REMI HERBULOT 

The consciousness of the third miiiennium. 


This bionic pinball ace has left an indelible mark on the history of computer games. Along with Didier Bouchon, 
he organised the very first intergalactic Olympics, somewhere near Saturn. 


Molecular alterations provoked by the CORPO WW particle tide have given him an extraordinary psy-power: 
he can execute the most complex sheet music without touching a piano and plays lunar golf without an 
outsized ball discovered in Picardy. 

Game backgmund; Macadam Bumper, Get Dexter, Get Dexter II, Purple Saturn Day. 




DUNE 


PATRICK DUBLANCHET 

A subtle blend of mind and matter. 


Dublanchet is the perfect illustration of the entropy principle. Hisdigital doings have left an imprint on the '80s. 
He has taken multiple choice to the height of gaming glory with the development of arborescences hitherto 
found only in the forests of remote CO RPO WW. He knows that interactive entertainment is the major art form 
of the '90s. 

The cryogenic particles caught him in his sleep. Since then his nights have become stunning astral voyages. 

Game Background; Amelie Minuit, Robbot, Crash Garrett, Kult, 

JEAN JACQUES CHAUBIN 

More than merely human, he exercises total control over blo-tech sciences; he creates. 

His eye acts as a hypersensitive war-space captor, able to track elements of whatever nature beneath several 
layers material existence. Everything vibrates. 

The CO RPO WW cryogenic wave has granted him mastery of a terrifying psy-power: any dream can come true, 
and any nightmare. 

DIDIER BOUCHON 

without him would God have created Man In quite the same Image? 

Recognisable by the sparkling of cosmic dust on his black Larsen-hid e knebs, Didier changes everything he can 
lay his hands on. Countless planetary systems have been modelled byhistouch. A hyper-space spell-caster and 
seducer of defenceless neurones, he also holds the rank of Special Forces Controller. Commander (ex - 
Captain) Blood has said of him "DA DA/LA UGH/CRY/LA UGH". CO RPO WW’s cryonic particles have revealed his 
long hidden psy-power: he can perform simultaneous unknown wave decoding. 

Game background: Captain Blood, Purple Saturn Day. 



DUNE 



SOHORTY 

Messenger of time, brewer of heroic potions. 


Specialists in Fantasy can only scratch their bewildered heads at the way Sohor survived the leap from a weird 
adventure universe to the real world. It is a secret he’s keeping to himself. That he was a Torbakkan mega- 
wizard is beyond doubt; his continued existence proves it. One of his party tricks is transmuting the pickled 
bodies of enemies into miniature plastic figurines. Only he has learned to energise the so-called Dead 
Dogperson of Bulgaria. 

The cryogenic particle storm has granted him another exciting psy-power: turning base metal into purest gold. 

STEPHAN E PICQ 

Your guide to the trip into the mind. Generator of digitised ecstasy. Seer of a new age, Picq builds harmonic 
structures of haunting strangeness and power. Flis sound palette reveals precognitive sensitivity. A new pulse, 
a star vision brought to shining life by sophisticated technology. 

The cryogenic frequency dust has given him a psy-power whose implications defy the imagination: he can tune 
into mental broadcasts from distant stars and astonish us with hits from beyond the galaxy... 

Game background: Lombrix, Bubble Ghost, Birdie, Kult, Purple Saturn Day, Crash Garrett, Get Dexter. 



DUNE 



DUNE INSTRUCTIONS 

THE OBJECTIVE OF DUNE 

You play Paul Atreldes, son of Duke Leto. You have just arrived on the desert planet Dune with your family 
which has been granted the right by the Emperor to mine the galaxy’s most precious resource - spice. 
Previously this right was held solely by the Harkonnens, sworn enemies of the House of Atreldes, who still 
control a third of the planet. As Paul you must win over the local Inhabitants of Dune the Fremen - slaves of 
the Harkonnens - and to side with you In a war to rid Dune of all Harkonnens. 

Dune Is a tactical adventure game and therefore we do not cover everything In the manual. It Is up to you, as 
Paul, to discover the way to rid Dune of the Harkonnen threat and liberate the Fremen. 

• NB There Is an ancient Fremen prophecy concerning a Mahdl 'The One Who Will Lead Us To Paradise and a 
LIsan Al Galb or 'Voice From The Outer World’ - an off-world prophet who would free them from bondage. 

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS 

Required: 

386 IBM PC or compatible running at 20 MHz 
500K of base memory 
256 Colour VGA graphics 
Hard Disk (50Kfree) 

DOS supporting MSCDEX 

CDRO M drive with transfer rate of 150 K per second 

Sound Cards-Adllb, Adlib Gold, Midi LAPCl, Sound Blaster, Sound Blaster Pro Mouse, Keyboard or joystick. 

Dune CD will run on the minimum required system listed above but for best results we recommend that you 
run the game on a 386 IBM PC or 100% compatible running at 33 MHz, with 1Mb of extended memory, a CD- 
ROM drive with a transfer rate of 150K per second or better and a sound card. For additional details on 
memory requirements, consult the READ me file contained on the CD. 



LOADING INSTRUCTIONS 

Insert the compact disk into your CD-ROM drive. Seiect the CD-RO M drive (for examp ie, if your CD-RO M is drive 
D then type D: at the DOS prompt and press the RETURN key. Then type INSTALL at the prompt and press 
RETURN and follow the on-screen instructions. 


CONTROLS 

Dune is played using a point and click system which allows the player to move through the game, perform 
actions and interact with other characters without doing any typing. We recommend that you use the mouse 
but Keyboard orjoystick can also be used. The game screen isdivided into a Main Screen and a Control Panel 
(described later). To interact with characters who appear in the main screen, or issue commands shown on 
the Control Panel just use the mouse to point at the character/command, then click with the left mouse button. 
In certain situations clicking the right mouse button will also bring up further information. 

The keyboard option allows you to use the keys from the Numeric Keypad or the Arrow (Cursor) Keys to flip 
through the available icons/options. To select and option press SPACE or RETURN. Additionally CTRL -l- Arrow 
Keys allows the cursor to be positioned anywhere on the screen. The joystick option performs identically to 
the Mouse. 


THE MAIN SCREEN 

The game is played through the eyes of Paul Atreides. The top three quarters of the screen is the Main Screen 
is the Main Screen and showsthe currant location and any characters present there. It is mainly just a depiction 
of the location, with all controls provided in the Main Control Panel at the bottom of the screen. However, by 
pointing at a character shown in the window and clicking with the left mouse button, you can choose to 
interact with them and the options shown in the Main Control Panel will change to those that are available to 
you. (At various times you can ask characters to "Talk to me", "Come with me" and "Work for me)." 




DUNE 



THE MAIN CONTROL PANEL 

The bottom quarter of the screen contains the Main 
Controi Panei. On the right of this panei is the compass. 
This shows which of the four directions (North, South, East 
and West) you are abie to move from your current 
iocation. Whiist inside the Paiace, ciicking on the centre of 
the compass wiii provide a map showing its rooms and the 
iocation of other characters. Paui is shown on this map as 
a red dot. 

The centre ofthe panei isdevoted to the options window 
which iists the actions avaiiabie to you at the time. The initiai commands are; 




See Dune Map-This takes you to the Dune map screen, from where you can give orders to your troops and 
check on the spice density. 

Mixer Panei- This takes you to the screen that controis Music and speech voiume/baiance as weii as subtities 
and ianguage. 

Duke Leto Atreides- The Duke is the oniy character you can interact with in the first iocation. Choosing this 
option has the same effect as ciicking on the character in the Main Screen. As weii as giving a ciose up of the 
character, the options wiii change to those for character interaction. 



DUNE 








On the top left of the Main Control Panel is the book icon. This brings up yourcurrent history. At the beginning 
it provides basic information, divided into subsections explaining the politics of Dune, Pauls role there, the 
importance of Spice and Fremen. AS you progress, so extra information is recorded. Click on the book to open 
it, click on the page to move through the book and click on the spine of the book to close it and return to 
the game. 

Below the book are three small windows. The far left shows a sun or moon to denote the time of day and a 
number to show how many days have passed .To the right of this are two small square windows which show 

the faces of the characters who accompany you. A 
maximum of two characters will travel with you at one 
time, if you click on the option "Come with me". 

OTHER CONTROLS 

P-pause: Looking in the bedroom mirror while in the 
Palace also pauses the game and offers the option to 
SAVE/LOAD and RESTART the game. You can also save 
by clicking on the DUNE globe in the control panel 
and selecting SAVE GAME. 

SEE DUNE MAP 

Selecting SEE DUNE MAP from the main screen takes 
you to a scale map of Dune showing the visible sietchs 
or caves of the Fremen. Scrolling with the compass 
reveals more. Each little character represents a troop chief— if he is not moving the troop is not busy. Lighter 
characters represent chiefs not rallied to you. Troop chiefs change colour depending on the occupation you 
assign to them: yellow— spice mining, red — soldier, green— ecology. 

For further explanation see ECOLOGY and CONFLICT. 

Use the command box or click on a chief to receive a report or give an order. 




DUNE 




Clicking on a sietch (left button) will let you see the equipment (used or unused) in this place, however if you 
have not yet visited this place then only the name will be displayed. 

Clicking on the red hawk centres the map on your current location. 

The menu options available allow you to: 

EXIT MAPS ■ Returns you to Paul’s view and the Main Control Panel. 

CONTACT FREMEN TROOPS - Allows you to contact a visible troop and give orders. 



SEE SPICE DENSITY MAP (Not available at first). Scroll around the map by using the compass or moving the 


cursor to the edge of the window. The spice density map may also be used to show your troops occupation 
by toggling 'Spice Density’ to 'Troop Occupation’. The functions of your troops are shown in the appropriate 
colour (yellow - spice mining, red - soldier, green - ecology). To close this window, click on the icon in the 
upper left corner of the window. 

TAKE ORNITHOPTER/CALL A WORM - Latter not available at first, see below for further info. 

FIND PROSPECTORS - Once you have a prospector working for you, you can click on this to automatically 
scroll the map straight to wherever they are. There is a representation of DUNE at the left of the panel. Click 
on the DUNE GLOBE icon for further options (see DUNE GLOBE below). 



DUNE 





DUNE GLOBE 

Shows the whole planet and allows you to examine any part of 
It In detail. Rotate the planet using the DUNE GLOBE Icon and 
click on the section you wish to see. The menu presents these 
options: 


EXIT GLOBE to return to the DUNE MAP 


SEE RESULTS to see your current status. This will show how the 
Atreldes House Is performing with data on spice stocks, number 
of men In control, and at the top Paul’s charisma level (see 
CHARISMA). Rotate the globe to see the full extent of the area you control (red) and the Harkonnen (blue). 
When the game commences Paul controls 1 per cent, the Harkonnens 21 per cent. STANDARD VISIO N returns 
you Dune Globe. 


SAVE GAME 
LOAD GAME 

OPTIONS AND QUIT GAME - see MUSIC options below 

MUSIC ■ The music option allows the soundtrack to be switched off and on. The music sequence may also be 
altered to play depending on the location or CD-style. Selecting CD-style will play every track In sequence or 
at random. 

Dune ■ the Computer Game soundtrack Is available on Compact Disc from Virgin Records. 







MAIN CHARACTERS 

To talk to characters choose from the highlighted options. A close-up will be displayed. 

DUKE LETO : Your father, the head of the Atreides family who resides in the Palace. Like any good father he 
will give you advice when you need it. 

LADY JESSICA; Your mother a woman of extraordinary powers— almost equal to your own. When you have 
visions she will explain their meaning to you. She never leaves the Palace so knows it better than anyone. 

DUNCAN IDAHO; Your close friend and trusted family lieutenant. He also keeps an eye on spice stocks 
and will advise you on shipments. 

THURFIR HAWAT; The family Mentat or strategist. 

GURNEY HALLECK; The military instructor who will provide important battle training. His charm and 
intelligence make him a useful intermediary. 

THE EMPEROR; The Padishah EmperorShaddam IV, head of the mighty feudal empire and the most powerful 
character in the game. Not a man to be crossed lightly— should you do so it could result in a visit from his 
feared Saudaukar storm-troops. 

STILGAR; The Fremen leader, the man whom all Fremen respect and follow. Before you can rally the Fremen 
as troops you must first make contact with him. 

KYNES; The Planetologist or ecologist. Kynes is the only man with the vision and knowledge to transform 
Dune from a desert into a habitable planet with abundant water and vegetation. 



DUNE 


THE FREMEN 

These are the native inhabitants of Dune, a fierce independent people who have learnt to adapt to the terrible 
environment of their planet by inventing a protective suit known as a stillsuit, which preserves the body’s 
moisture. They live in caves known as sietchs. Since they have suffered at the hands of the Harkonnens they 
are keen for liberation and can be persuaded to work and fight on your behalf. The Fremen have a dream, 
which is to make Dune more habitable by covering it with vegetation. Flelp them achieve their dream by 

reclaiming Dune and defeating the Flarkonnens. 

TRANSPORT 

To begin with your only mode of transport is by ornithopter, a 
winged helicopter which will take you to any part of Dune. Should 
you select it, a screen pops up with a map and control panel. The 
direction cursor at the bottom right scrolls the map — since it is a 
globe it wraps around. To select a destination such as a sietch place 
the pointer over a cave entrance and click the left mouse button. 
The top line will tell you the direction or sietch name you are 
travelling to. • NB: Beware of entering Flarkonnen territory. 



THE PALACE 

You begin the game inside the Palace now occupied by your family. You have the choice of exploring or 
leaving the Palace and taking an ornithopter to explore the planet. 

• NB: This palace was once occupied by the Baron Flarkonnen and his entourage. They are untrustworthy and 
may have left unwanted gifts... 




DUNE 





SPICE 

The most precious commodity in the universe with miracuious properties. The Emperor has granted the 
Atreides the iucrative iicence to mine it on Dune— the oniy piace it exists. In return he expects a percentage 
so it is cruciai you keep up stocks. Faiiure to compiy with his requests is iikeiy to resuit in a visit from the 
Saudaukar. Aiternativeiy sending him a generous shipment couid keep him off your back for a whiie. 

SPICE MINING 

You can empioy the Fremen popuiation in any one of three roies the first of which is spice mining. 

To obtain spice you must begin mining it. By visiting the many sietchs and contacting their ieaders Paui can 
persuade the Fremen to work for him mining spice. This is done by seiecting TROO P OCCUPATIO N to speciaiise 
in spice mining. 

Flowever beyond the initiai three sietchs you must persuade a prospector to work for you and despatch him 
to other sietchs to search for the stuff. Fremen occupied in spice mining are shown asyeiiow on the map. 

MOTIVATION 

The Fremen wiii oniy work for you if they are motivated. This is expressed as a percentage which wiii drop if 
Paui faiis to visit them reguiariy. If motivation drops, so correspondingiy wiii spice production. There are hints 
such as sabotage occurring when motivation drops. Motivation can be increased further by heiping the Fremen 
achieve their dream (see ECOLOGY). 

EQUIPMENT 

Abandoned sietchs contain usefui equipment: e.g. harvesters (to speed up mining), ornithopters and 
weapons. Smuggiers who refuse to take sides wiii aiso seii equipment and weapons. 



DUNE 



WORMS 

The shai-hulud or sandworm is inextricably linked to spice and is exceedingly dangerous. It will attack without 
provocation, homing in on rhythmic vibrations from vehicles like harvesters making it a menace to spice 
production. 

The worm has a greater role to play as the game progresses when you will discover how to use it to travel. 

CHARISMA 

Paul’s success is indicated by his charisma level which rises and falls depending on his performance throughout 
the game. As you convince Fremen to work for you so his charisma rises - as his charisma rises so Paul’s 
telepathic ability increases allowing him to communicate across greater distances allowing him to motivate 
troops from afar without the necessity of travel. Paul will have visions during the game depending on the length 
of time and amount of spice in his blood (which turns his eyes blue like the Fremen’s). The visions give you 
information concerning anything of consequence happening on Dune: e.g., messages from the Emperor, 
attacks on sietchs or harvesters. 

• At various points in the game there is an update sequence which engages automatically. 

CONFLICT 

Training An Army 

Once you have made contact with Stilgar, the Fremen leader, you can begin to mobilise an army against the 
Flarkonnens. On contacting him the occupation can be altered to allow the Fremen to begin military training. 
The amount of training they get is crucial to the performance as armies. 

You can speed up their training by taking Gurney Flalleck (see CFIAFtACTERS) to the sietchs. 



DUNE 



Espionage 

Once you have selected the military option you can allocate some of your troops to ESPIONAGE in order to 
find the location and strength of Harkonnen fortresses. Only fortresses in range of individual sietchs can be 
selected. Troops on spying missions can be ordered to attack at any time. They also run the risk of being 
captured, their ability being dictated by their training. 

Weaponry 

Being well armed before engaging the Harkonnens in battle significantly improves your chances of victory. 
There are four types of weapon: 

Crysknife: a sacred Bremen fighting knife. 

Lasgun: a hand-held laser pistol. 

Weirding Module: a powerful voice powered box which concentrates sound to devastating effect. 
Atomics: atomic weapons which can only be found by conquering Harkonnen fortresses. 

Attack 

After discovering the Harkonnen fortresses check their whereabouts on the SPICE DENSITY MAP given to you 
in the game. By clicking on TROO P OCCUPATION you can find out the whereabouts of your own forces. A blue 
fortress denotes a Harkonnen stronghold. By clicking onto a sietch and on to a fortress you can move troops 
into attack. It can take them several hours to get into position but once assembled they will automatically 
engage. 

You can stay in contact to how they’re doing and send reinforcements (though this takes time) or withdraw. 
Once troops are lost they cannot be replaced though sometimes you can liberate Bremen from captured 
fortresses. 

It is also possible to capture some Harkonnen captains who may give up precious information. If they are 
victorious Paul has a vision of a Harkonnen fort transformed into a sietch. 




DUNE 


ECOLOGY 

Part of the Fremen dream is to turn Dune into a more habitabie pianet by reciaiming the desert with vegetation 
and providing abundant quantities of Dune’s scarcest resource— water. 

Fleiping the Fremen achieve their dream serves a twofoid purpose centrai to winning the game: 

i) It increases their motivation 

ii) By pianting vegetation in piace of spice, Flarkonnens can be forced out of their forts, since vegetation 
grows north where they reside. 

You cannot begin ecoiogy untii you make contact with Kynes the ecoiogist (see CFIAFtACTERS) who has the 
buibs necessary to begin cuitivation on Dune. Once this is done you can begin aitering troop occupation at 
sietchs to ecoiogy, aitering their coiour to green. 

Windtraps 

To begin ecoiogy you must first create a windtrap. Since water is so scarce on Dune it must be coiiected from 
every possibie source. Windtraps grab the moisture from the air and store it in reservoirs in the sietchs. By 
changing troops to ecoiogy you can get them to begin assembiing windtraps at sietchs which do not possess 
one thus extending their abiiity to cuitivate. To check whether there is water or a windtrap at a sietch simpiy 
ciick the ieft mouse button on it to bring up a breakdown on the information. 

Cultivation 

You cannot piant vegetation untii you have a buib in your inventory. Send troops to Kynes to obtain one or 
send a troop in search for equipment in the hope they find one. Once they return with a buib they wiii 
automaticaiiy begin cuitivating the iand. • NB Keep an eye on troopsthroughout the game. If a man stops work 
his motivation is iow or, in ecoiogy, he has run out of equipment i.e., buibs. Despatch him to find one. 

Game End 

The game ends when Paui and the Fremen controi the Flarkonnen Paiace after taking aii the forts on Dune. 



DUNE' m 